first two articles (#3)
kevinfalting/kevinfalting.github.io: negated-happy-path-form.md

# Negated Happy Path Form

I've been leaving a lot of code review comments asking for a boolean expression to be written in happy-path-form, then negated. Let's call it the _negated happy path form_. There's a few ways to do this.

Consider the following expression:
```go
if !a || !b || !c {
  return
}
```

versus

```go
if !(a && b && c) {
  return
}
```

versus

```go
happyPath := a && b && c
if !happyPath {
  return
}
```

The second two are significantly simpler to understand and edit. They define the "happy path" then just negate it.

Of course there's always the tried and true:

```go
if !a {
  return
}

if !b {
  return
}

if !c {
  return
}
```

Depending on the complexity of the expression, I may go between the second and third forms, sometimes combining them.

```go

> isThis := a && b

Reviewer: I love this style too because the var names add meaning to the otherwise confusing expression. Boolean conditions can be some of the hardest things for our brains to grok for some reason. Being able to break it down like this helps immensely.

isThat := c && d
if !(isThis || isThat) {}
```

> Stop here, I believe I've made my point. It's a simple change and we're just getting progressively more silly from this point on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stop here, I believe I've made my point. It's a simple change and we're just getting progressively sillier from this point on.
```

It’s a word, I swear. My kids say it all the time.
